# Module in Node JS 💻

A "module" refers to a self-contained unit of code that performs a specific set of tasks. 

Modules help organize code into logical units, making it easier to manage, reuse, and maintain. 


## Types of Module

1. **CommonJS Modules:** CommonJS modules are primarily used in Node.js environments.

CommonJS modules use "require()" to import modules and "module.exports" (or exports) to export values from a module.

```
    // math.js
    function add(a, b) {
        return a + b;
    }

    module.exports = add;
```
```
    // app.js
    const add = require('./math');
    console.log(add(2, 3)); 
```

2. **ES Modules:** ES modules are the standardized module system for JavaScript and are supported in modern browsers and Node.js.

ES modules use "import" and "export" statements to import and export values between modules.

**NOTE:** For using ES module you have to add "type"="module" in package.json

```
    // math.js
    export function add(a, b) {
        return a + b;
    }
```
```
    // app.js
    import { add } from './math';
    console.log(add(2, 3));
```


## Difference between package.json and package-lock.json

1. **package.json:** It is the main configuration file for a Node.js project. It provides metadata about the project and lists the dependencies (packages) that the project needs to run.


- **Metadata:** Basic information about the project, such as the name, version, description, author, and license.


2. **package-lock.json:** It is automatically generated by npm when you run commands like "npm install". It ensures that the project is installed with exactly the same dependencies (including their versions) across different environments.

- It lists every single package that is installed, along with their exact versions and resolved URLs. (like Every detailes about the package you installed)






<br>

--- 📄 Document End 🎉 -----